[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: So
good morning, I'm Doug Crockford.
This is three days of the good parts.
Unexpectedly, JavaScript has become,
perhaps the most important programming
language in the world,
which is surprising,
because it's also the world's most
misunderstood programming language,
which we'll try to fix
some of that this week.
So, this is the outline for the course.
Today is going to be a series of five
lectures and I apologize for that.
There's a lot of information
I need to give you and
the only way I know to
do that is to say it.
So you're gonna have to listen
to me whining on all day, but
tomorrow will be much better.
Tomorrow, we're gonna workshop.
We're gonna have fun with functions.
You could be writing programs and
it's gonna be great.
We're gonna have a much
better time tomorrow.
Then on the third day,
we'll do some more fun with functions,
then we'll also look at
some very important topics.
Security, asynchronicity, which is
something you have to deal on a lot with,
especially in servers and the better parts
looking at the future of this language and
other languages So that sound agreeable.
So, let's begin with part one
programming style and your brain.
These are two topics which appear to
have nothing to do with each other.
Programming Style is the part of your
program that the compiler notice and
some people think that because
the compiler doesn't care,
you shouldn't care any styles as good
as another it's just a matter of taste.
I'm gonna try to persuade you
that that is not the case,
that some styles are significantly
better than others and then your brain.
Your brain is that big wad of meat in
your skull that you think with and
what possible connection could
there be between these two things?
Well, turns out there is a connection,
a surprising and important one.
I'm gonna be misrepresenting
the work of Daniel Kahneman,
the Nobel Winning Psychologist.
Now, Nobel does not give a prize for
psychology.
So they gave him the award for economics,
but he's not an economist, but
he found that one of the fundamental
assumptions of economics doesn't hold.
That is that in any transaction,
a party can be expected to
pursue their own best interests.
Kahneman shows this is not the case
if a party is a human being,
because human beings do not think
the way economists think we think.
In fact, none of us think
the way we think we think.
And the more you study Kahneman,
the more amazing it is that we
ever get anything done at all.
So Kahneman has a metaphor for
human thought based on
the interaction of two systems.
System two and system one.
System two, which we can think of as
the head is the higher level one.
It's analytic.
It's algorithmic.
It's where we do mathematics and
reasoning, and logic.
It's a really sophisticated machine.
It requires a tremendous amount of
effort to use and it is very slow.
So, we leave it turned
off as much as possible.
It's because that system is so
slow that we had to invent computers,
because system two is not capable of
generating all of the numbers that society
needed in order to do it social evolution.
So we needed to come up with
machines to do that processing for
us, then there's system one.
System one, you can think of as your gut.
It is intuitive.
It's heuristic.
It's associative.
It is very, very fast.
It requires no effort.
And in fact, you cannot turn it off.
It's on all the time and the idea that
we have these two systems is not new.
I mean, we all have this intuitive sense
that we've got these two systems and
sometimes you can even hear them.
Sometimes if you're confused about
something important, you can hear your
head telling you one thing and
your gut telling you something else.
We've all experienced that.
What Kahneman found was how
the two systems are connected.
It turns up system two gets
its assumptions, its givens,
its working set from system one and
is not aware of that connection.
System two thinks it's getting the stuff
from the vault of deep truth, but
it's not.
It's getting it from system one and
system one,
because it's an approximate system
sometimes gets things wrong.
And if you have a logical
system with false inputs,
you can get false outputs and
it turns out we do this all the time.